# 4.3.2 Compliant rUSD / SOURCE Swaps

In jurisdictions in which rUSD holders are not permitted to directly purchase SOURCE with their rUSD holdings, the following methods can be employed to govern the rUSD supply compliantly.&#x20;

1. **Internal Benefits Store**\
   To remove excess rUSD from circulation, the Reserve may use its SOURCE income to purchase goods and services on the open market, and then resell them internally to rUSD holders. Such goods and services would be offered at significant discounts and only to holders of positive rUSD balances (and not be purchasable for credit). When a member purchases such goods and services, the rUSD used to do so flow into the Reserve and can be sterilized and removed from circulation.\
   \
   Similar to the methods brought forward in chapter 4.1, this as well counterbalances inflation, while substituting goods and services lost due to member defaults. Additionally, the subsidized goods and services offered by the Benefits Store incentivize members to remain within the network and provide it with goods and services, even if they are no longer interested in accessing credit. &#x20;
2. **rUSD transaction fees and SOURCE Cashbacks**\
   Alternatively, the network may exempt holders of positive rUSD balances from the requirement to pay transaction fees in SOURCE and instead charge them transaction fees in rUSD. These transaction fees can then be adjusted to remove the required amount of rUSD from circulation. In return, members may be passively reimbursed in SOURCE. Since SOURCE will always be required to access credit on the ReSource network, these passive “cash-backs” grant access to a utility and are not viewed as a non-compliant monetary transaction.          &#x20;
